Hello. This is how to use Academic Writer, one of our tools for APA formatting. I like
to say that Academic Writer is my favorite tool that we pay for here at TJ Jones Library.
It is phenomenal because it really lets you focus on content while it takes care of citation
style, especially for APA citations. Now, the way that you get to Academic Writer is
you go to library.noracentral.edu, then you'll find our homepage here. What you're going
to want to do is scroll and find this third bubble that says Citation Tools, and we're
going to click on it. Now, you're going to want to click on this first style, APA style,
and it's going to work. It's going to be here at the top. You're going to want to click
on that, and it's going to take you to the website. Now, you're going to want to create
an account with your Noracentral email. That lets the system know that, hey, you have a
paid for subscription. I'm going to click on Write a New Paper now that I'm logged in.
There are a couple of different options here for you. If you want to write a basic paper,
you can, or it also has a literature review paper and a couple of different templates.
I like to stick to the basic paper unless I'm writing a literature review. We'll click
on Basic Paper, and we'll hit Continue. Now, I'm going to show you a paper that I actually
already have written. I'm going to go to my papers, and I'm just going to show you my
essay, My Philosophy of Philanthropy. Now, what's nice is you're going to basically start
at the very tippy top of the main menu and work your way down. Over here in the left
hand column, we're going to start with Write and Title Page. Here, you're going to import
your title, so My Philosophy of Philanthropy, Fundraising, and Grant Writing. Here is the
course number I was a part of, the course name, my professor name, and the date. Then
you're going to hit Save and Continue to Authors. Now, what's nice about Academic Writer is
that once you type in your author information, it saves it. Here's my information, the institution
that I was at, and then you would hit Update Author or Save. Let me show you what it does.
It creates your title page for you. It center aligned everything that needed to be center
aligned. It added page numbers, it bolded the title, and everything is according to
APA standards. So, you put all the information in the right order. Next, what you're going
to want to do is go to the body of your paper. Now, I like to create a new section over here
for each part of my paper. The way that you create a new section is by clicking on this
plus that says New Section, and then it'll add another section. So, I have a section
for my introduction, my literature review, benefits, challenges, context, current news,
and my personal philosophy as well as the conclusion. So, each main point in your outline,
you're going to want to create a new section. Now, the way that you format an argumentative
paper is you start with your topic sentence. So, my first main point is going to be Benefits
of Philanthropy. So, I'm going to start with my topic sentence, and then I'm going to list
some evidence supporting that topic sentence, and then I'm going to have a transition sentence.
What's nice is once you're listing your evidence, let's say you have a quotation, you can actually
directly import it into the text, and it does all of this for you. So, it has your quote
in quotation marks and then your in-text citation. So, you're going to put your cursor where
you want your quote, and then you're going to click on insert. You're going to scroll
down to find and cite reference, and then you're going to find your reference from your
references page. So, we're going to select, and then we're going to hit cite. Now, it's
going to ask you a couple questions. Is this a parenthetical or is this a narrative citation?
Now, what's really nice is if you don't know what parenthetical or narrative means, you
can click on this question mark and it tells you. And then is this a quotation? Now, you're
going to add your page number and then your quote here in the quotation box. In the quotation
box, you do not want to add quotation marks because it'll do it for you. Then you hit
submit and it adds this whole citation for you. So, it makes it really easy. Now, as
you add citations, it's also building your references page. So, if we click on references,
these are all the references that I have listed in my paper. But if we hit preview, it will
create my references. So, as we saw, it created our title page. But if we go to the very end,
you'll see my reference here at the top. So, it also does this for you. What's also nice
is once you've kind of worked your way through each section here on the menu, you should
be getting closer and closer to finishing your paper. So, it actually has a research
lab book here where you can create an annotated bibliography and you can kind of plan and track
your research. I haven't done too much with the research lab book, but I know that a lot
of people really like it. So, once you're done writing, you can move on to check and
you can check your writing. You can check if you're using active voice or passive voice,
but you can also check your references and see and make sure that you have cited everything
that you want to cite in your paper. So, this is really good to go through before you export.
It also has a settings section. So, if at any point you don't like certain settings,
you can try to fix them there. But then it's got the export section. So, you can either
email it to yourself or download it. My personal favorite is to download. And then you can
just download your paper. You can also just download your references as well. So, that
is the basics of how to use Academic Writer. Now, it has a lot here. So, it has a writing
section that we were just in. It has the references section where you can upload references even
from Zotero. I have a different tutorial on that. But it also has a learn section. So,
if you are trying to learn more APA and want to learn how to do your headings or want to
learn what information is important, you can actually browse through lessons and learn
different things on APA. So, it has a quick guide for abbreviations and abstract and keywords.
And I haven't explored this too much, but it's actually awesome, especially for their
AI references because that's new and we don't have a lot of guidance on that quite yet.
If you have any questions on Academic Writer at any point, feel free to send the library
email or schedule a research consultation. Happy researching!